# Discord-Bot

What started as a simple experiment to create a Discord Bot, became the project to create a Bot that could answer using the char-rnn proposed by @akarpathy

Here I use the code form @minesh.mathew of the char-rnn in Keras

The bot is trained in a corpus extracted from a WhatsApp group so to simulate conversations from this same group of people.

## Getting Started

The idea of the bot is to train the [char-rnn](https://github.com/karpathy/char-rnn) with the corpus that you have and then have the bot generate words based on that corpus. The bot will connect to the Discord server you configure.

Take in consideration that this is one of my first attempts to code, therefore the quality of the code is similar to an [italian cook](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spaghetti_code)

### Prerequisites

1. Install the dependencies - there is a requirements.txt available
   * discord.py
   * Keras
   * Tensorflow
1. Install jupyter (for executing the programs interactively) - Anaconda install will make your life easier
1. If you corpus come from a WhatsApp group then you can use the parser I prepared, for that you need to download the group chatlog from your mobile and send it to you (I used the email option)
1. Training of the model took a while with my NVIDIA 1060, I imagine that a GPU system will be a good idea. When I exported the docker container to Amazon, a run in AWS c3.x4large instance took 40min aprox per iteration.
1. Enough permission (not real clear to me what was needed, I was an administrator of the server) in the Discord server to include the bot

### Installing

To use the bot then you need to:

1. Download the corpus and execute the "corpus pre-processing". The most important lines to look at (and change) are:
   * Within the `clean_unicode` function, what are the regexp which matches with the unicode values you want to remove (the RNN is better is there are less chars to predict)
   * Within the `ismessage` function the regexp that matches your datetime format (it seems that WhatsApp have a different one in each country)
1. Once the corpus is preprocessed I stored the image locally (alternatively you could use Amazon S3, in this case  you may change the `get-file` in the  "char_rnn_karpathy_keras")
1. Execute the "char_rnn_karpathy_keras"
   * According to the authors a corpus should be 2MB sized to start getting good results
   * The loss reduces quite well as the iterations progress, I recommend changing the iteration range to 61 and used the last model version (you can test with the previous as well)
   * Take a long walk...
1. Once the processing is finished you will have 1 or more of Karpathy_LSTM_weights_??.h5 where ?? is the iteration used to create the model weights. Edit the `model.load_weights` in the "Bot" to change to the version you want to use
1. Add the bot app to the discord. I followed the instructions in this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u6tBvQSXJ7I)
1. Execute the "Bot"
   * In the `charrnn` function the outermost `for` loop defines how many characters will be created at each invocation. Adjust it properly so it doesn't take too long to the bot to answer
   * replace the _TOKEN_ in `client.run` with tho eone you generated in the previous step
1. Test the bot in your channel. To talk to the bot just write something start with ! the bot will use the corpus to predict the response.

### Docker build

As an alternative to build a virtualenv in your machine with all the code, I introduced a dockerfile that should be able to build a complete docker image to execute in your machine (the dockerfile is using CPU version of Tensorflow)

The dockerfile runs 3 programs within the container:

* "Bot.py" - which is the actual Bot
* Jupyter notebook server in port 8000 - for debuging/testing purposes with the interactive notebooks
* sshd - For the case you are debugging a remote server (like AWS).

#### Before building the container

* For the sshd to work properly you have to copy your public key ("id_rsa.pub" file) into the source directory before building your image
* If you don't want to have the sshd and Jupyter notebook server in your container, comment them out in the "supervisord.conf" file
* The Jupyter notebook server is build with a password (instead of a token), the password is "pass". This could be changed by creating a new password and storing it on jupyter_notebook_config.json
* The source directory includes "processed corpus.txt" and "Karpathy_LSTM_weights_10.h5" which are generated by the process above. You can use then as-is for testing, however you need to delete them and change the comments in the dockerfile to enable the generation of those files


#### Building the container

To create the container execute *docker build -t discordbot:debug .* at the source directory.

#### Executing the container

If you are going to execute in your machine you may run *docker run -d -p 8000:8000 -p 22:56789 discordbot:debug*.
This will link the Jupyter notebook server to port 8000 and the sshd at port 56789.


## Built With

* [discord.py](https://github.com/Rapptz/discord.py) - The Python Discord Bot API
* [Keras](https://keras.io/) - High Level Neural Network library
* [Tensorflow](https://www.tensorflow.org/) - Numerical computing library
* [paser code article](https://dscience.co.uk/whatsapp-ening-text-analytics-with-a-whatsapp-message-log/) - Although the article didn't have the full code, the parser was basically copied from there
* [char-rnn implementation in Keras](https://github.com/mineshmathew/char_rnn_karpathy_keras) - I totally copy/paste this implementation. The predict code in the bot itself also comes from this source


## To Do

* Implement the temperature in the predictions to change the _diversity_ of the generated text
* Implement pytest testing
* Implement CI automation to generate the final deployable version once changes are committed in Github
